ALife Final Reflection




        Throughout this year, Artificial Life has been a topic that has dominated my brain consistently, whether that be through the multiple classes in this topic I have taken, or the research and work I put in for my Capstone. Despite this, I believe that the most fair grade for myself personally would be a C+/B-. 
        I give myself this grade for a variety of reasons. First, I want to touch on the actual work I’ve done throughout the class. While there is not much, a lot of this class for me personally was filling out the gaps in my knowledge, as well as expanding and building upon what I have learned and worked for this past year or so. Because of this, the primary bulk of my work was learning how to adapt my current knowledge in ALife from what I knew with my work in DEAP, and adapting that to C++. In this case, I believe I was successful. However, as I’ve mentioned, there isn’t a whole ton of work to be shown. One important reason for this which I want to touch on now is my scheduling. Through this term, I have been working close to full time, as well as figuring out my future schooling, future housing at home, and other important life decisions and steps. While there are some more reasons, I will get into them later.  
        To pivot for a second, I want to touch on my involvement in class itself. I believe the bulk of the effort I put into this class was through the in-class discussions. I participated in most of the discussions quite a bit, connecting topics to others and bringing up other questions or ideas that some haven’t considered or have explored in the discussion. I believe a lot of this was shown in the discussions themselves, with me being a common voice heard throughout. In this case, I believe a lot of my knowledge and smarts were shown here.
        Now, I want to go back to my work, to explain my portfolio a bit. As mentioned before, a large portion of my work is taking what I know and experimenting with it in a new environment and with a new language. However, with my projects, I believe that a lot of them cover multiple topics, which is why there are the same projects in multiple folders. For example, one of the first ALife genetic programs we created was a collaboration between a few of my group members. While the work is still my own, this was a program my group built and planned and helped collaborate with all in our own projects, so there is very little actual crossover of code, thus not needing us to link to a mutual github repository. Another good example is with my MABE project. I put it in EVO, as well as the FAILURE folder. This is because I believe that despite the project working, I did not have the opportunity to implement fully what I wanted. This is because of many reasons, the most important being a lack of time, due to reasons I mentioned above. 
        Through my time in this class, I thoroughly enjoyed my time here. It helped me conceptualize big concepts and connect with people in a specific niche that I am fascinated by. While, in hindsight, I wish I had more time to work on projects, I do believe I kept up with the topics in class and kept up with what we needed to know and work on. Again, I believe I should get a C+ or a B-.